So let's make sure that our product items on the product overview screen look a bit nicer than they're
currently looking right now of course.
Every product item is just rendered as a text as a text component.
That's not what I want here instead I'll remove that import and I'll create a brand new component that
should be responsible for my product item.
Now one important note regarding where we create that component we can create it here in the product
or review Jay as follows well we can of course have more than one component profile.
So here I could add my product item component or whoever you want to call it like this.
Then we can use this component in this file which is of course what I plan to do.
This is a pattern you can use if you have a component that's really strongly tied to a number of components
and you're only splitting it so that each component is a bit more readable.
Once these separate components get very big you should still consider splitting them into separate files
though so that your files stay small and if people want to have a look at one of the two components
that don't have to scroll over you the average component they might not be interested in.
So that's one thing to keep in mind of course if you also plan on using a component in yet another component
you should always store it in a separate file not only so that you can export it as a default because
you could always export this if it's stored along with another component that's not the main reason
but mostly to make it really clear that this is a standalone component that might and will be used in
different parts of your app.
Now the product item here will not only be not super small which on its own would be a reason to put
it into a separate file but I will also use it in a different component later or in different places
of the app it's not just relevant to the products overview screen and therefore I'll add it in the components
folder and in that components folder to kind of organize my components a little bit I'll add a shop
sub folder where I want to place all the components that are directly related to the shop feature or
two features in general of my app.
So in there in the shop sub folder I'll add this product item J.S. file and you'll see which of the
folders I will add here later.
Now again all these patterns and practices I'm showing you here are just possible ways of doing this
in general in my courses and in this course to a show all the best practices you can use but often programming
there is not just a single right or wrong way.
So the practices and patterns I'm showing here are practices and patterns you'll see in other projects
too but you might also see our folder structures in the end you can always work with the structure that
works for you there isn't a right or wrong choice here I just want to explain my reasoning for using
this structure which hopefully helps you understand why I use it and why this might be worth a thought
so here the product item filed the item jazz file of course will hold the product item component which
is a normal functional component that receives props and in the end will return J has X code and therefore
since it holds J has X code we need to import react from react and in here are all the import things
from React Native because here I'll now work with D React Native primitives to really build my component
because from there I'll need to view I'll need the text I always want to use the image because will
display the product image here and also the style sheet because we'll definitely also style this hands
you can always already add a stylus constant here which we create with style sheet create 2 which we
pass a javascript object and in the end we export this product item here as a default of course now
in here in this component I mean we can start creating the j as X coat it makes up product item and
this will be a presentational component which means there won't be any logic in here we won't manage
any internal state this will just be a component we can use an average components to get the right styling
a layout out of the box so this component here will be responsible for using certain React Native components
and laying them out and starting them in a certain way so in here in the end want to return a View which
wraps everything which organizes everything which we can also style to get this card look with maybe
a drop shadow maybe rounded corners whatever you want and in there would now have different parts for
example we'll definitely have the image in their product image I also want to have the title and the
price so we'll need some text in here.
So for the title here and here and the forward price and dollars and below that I also want to have
a view with with buttons.
So here we can use the built in button component for the moment where we can then add a product to the
cart or all of you the details so where we have these two options basically and of course we'll need
to add on press handlers here so that's the very basic skeleton.
Probably not the final one we'll have to see how we can style everything here.
That's the layout I want.
I wrap my buttons here into view by the way because I want to have them side by side in the row.
And by having a view around them we can style that view was such that it uses flex directed row and
so on.
That's a setup.
We we can work with here.
Now let's add some styling.
And for that I want to use we're a start here on the surrounding view.
Right set up styles product like this for a year in the style sheet.
I add product like that ad by product key here.
And of course now again it's totally up to you how you want to styles.
I want to have that Kaj look so the offer I'll add a shadow shadow color which can be black shadow opacity
which can be zeroed out to six a shadow offset where I have the width of set of zero and the height
offset off to and to shed a radius of eight maybe.
And as always play around with these values to find your configuration.
Now you might remember that shadow only works and I was.
So for Android all at the elevation property year and sets to five maybe again you can experiment with
different values there as well.
And I want to have a board a radius of 10 because I want rounded corners.
And again that's something I want here.
Some of you don't have to do all that the background color of white to make sure that our card here
our product always has this background color even if our main apps should use a different background
color later so that's my my product My wrapper here around the entire product I additionally also want
to set up my height here.
Every product should have a height of 300 pixels and of course that is a value you can also tweak to
your requirements.
You could of course also make this dynamic with the dimensions API as I learned it in the responsive
module and I'll add a margin of 20 in all directions around every product item so that we have a spacing
in all directions with this setup we can start working on outputting something.
So the image needs a source and will get a network image here because if you have a look at the dummy
data all these image you are L's here are well you are else that's all what we have in the model we
expect a U or L here.
So to a network image and that would be the devil of course for any shop you built because you'll never
include all the product images into your app at least if it's not some in the app shop for a game but
if it's a shop where people can create products.
Obviously people will create products dynamically after your app was distributed.
So it's impossible for you to include all images into your app instead they have to be stored on a server
so therefore here we need to pass the object to source where we set the you or I property.
And that will now be received from outside because this product item component is presentational.
So any data to display needs to be passed in through props and video we could expect the image prompt
but ask for all the props in your own components.
You can pick any names you want for a title I expect to get a title prop and for the price I expect
to get a price prop I'll keep the dollar sign here by the way because price will just be a number and
of course I won't have a dollar sign in front of this.
Now one little note here I want to make sure that the price I get always has exactly two decimal places
and we can achieve this by calling to fixed on this and passing in a two to fixed as a function of whale
on numbers in JavaScript which converts this to basically a string with a fixed amount of decimal places
in here I restrict us to always be two decimal places.
That's normal javascript.
Nothing specific to react native now when we pressed a few details button then I will trigger props
on view detail so I again use a name here which you can configure or name whoever you want but the idea
here is that props on you detail points at a function which in the end is executed when this button
is pressed and therefore here if this button.
The card buttons pressed I'll point on to a function which I expect to get on the on Add To Cart prop
again.
You can name these props whatever you want but when you use your component you have to make sure they
are available and that they get values which are functions which then are triggered through these buttons.
Now we're getting all the data now for the image since this is a network image.
We need to set up the width and height because the image can't see that in advance as it could do it
for a local image it can't do this for a network image.
So here I'll point at Styles dot image and I'll add this image key to my style sheet there for now.
Again it's generally up to you how you style this but all set this to have the width of let's say 60
percent.
Keep in mind that the overall product has a height of sorry a width of 100 percent but a height of 60
percent because the overall product item here has a height of 300 and I won't have the image in there
that should all take up the majority of the height but I also have the title and the prize and my buttons
and you should all fit in there.
So I'll give the image 60 percent of the height.
So did the of things here can split the remaining 40 percent amongst them so with that that's the image.
Now of course the image isn't everything we have here we also do have well our title we do have our
price and I want to style that as well.
So for the title I'll add the title style here and for the price I'll add.
Let's say a price style and here for these buttons I'll also add a style to the surrounding view and
I'll name this actions and of course all these style names as always are totally up to you here.
I want to add mine my title and well the price and d actions property to my style shoot here and now
for the title you can of course style this in whatever way you want.
We have no custom funds here.
I will add some soon but for the moment I'll go.
Just ignore that and just start with a fun size of 18 and I want to add a margin vertical so top and
bottom of free so we're 4 so very small margin but still some margin around this title for the price
I'll set a fun size of 14 so a bit smaller and I'll also give us a color which should be maybe 8 8 8
which is like a grayish dark ish color.
Now actions is placed on that view which holds the buttons and therefore I want to make sure that the
button sit next to each other so in one row.
So I'll give this flex direction of row here and I will also justified content to have all the remaining
space between them and in addition I want to align items in the center vertically along cross axes which
for a flex direction of row is the vertical axis.
With that we have some basic styling.
Now let's use that component before we refined the set up into styling so the product item component
which we do export here and the product item follow can now be used in the product overview file by
importing product item from there.
Let's point at our components folder there at the shop sub folder and then that product item.
And now this is what I want to use here when I render my items.
Product item can be a self closing component because all the data is received through props and not
between the opening and closing tax.
Now of course we need to set up all the things we expect here.
We expect the image to title the price and our two event handling props here.
So that's what we need to provide now.
Hence your own product item.
I'll start with the image and that of course is item data dot item dot image your L and you always must
remember that item data dot item points as a product as defined in our product model and they are afraid
we'll have a image you are L property written like this.
If you wrote it differently you of course need to access it differently besides the image will all to
have a title which is item data dot item dot title and the size that will have the price with item data
item dot price.
And then we have our two event handlers here because we do have the on view detail prop and the on Add
To Cart prop we need to add so on view detail we'll do something later for now it's just an empty function
and on Add To Cart will also do something later.
For now it can also be an empty function.
This is how our product ideas should be rendered with that if we save this does what you should see.
It's not perfect yet but we're getting there.
This is not too bad actually.
Now of course what you notice is that the buttons are colored in the wrong way that this space isn't
really used in the way it should be was down there that we may be all they want to center this text
but these are of course things we can work on so to refine this back in the product item component here.
Let's start with our two texts here.
They should of course be centered and that can be done in a very simple way by wrapping that with a
view moving these two texts in there giving that view as style.
And of course you can named it however you want.
I'll name it details because we kind of layout the product details there.
So I will add my my details style here to the style sheet and there I'll just set a line items center.
Does uses flex directional column the default and therefore center centers on the cross axis it always
does this but the cross axis for Flex direction column is of course left to right.
So it centers horizontally which is what I want here and I'll also give this a height of 15 percent.
Keep in mind that the image takes 60 percent so we give this maybe 15 percent.
So almost half of the remaining 40 percent not quite half.
And I'll add a little bit of padding here of 10 maybe.
And for the buttons here these are in my actions property there.
I want to set the height to the remaining twenty five percent.
That should be a string of course because we have 60 percent here height.
Then we have 50 percent here.
Hence here I want to keep have the remaining 25 percent and if we now save this does looks way better.
Now some padding to the left and right would all be nice for the buttons.
So on this actions style property I'll add a padding horizontal of 20 maybe so did we have some internal
spacing left or right now to change the color of the buttons.
We can just go to the button components which are built into react native and set the color prop here
two colors.
Would you therefore need to import from the constants folder and from the colors file there and set
distant colors.
Primary also here for the second colored you add to cart button at the second button therefore.
So now we have our buttons here.
Add to Cart and view details and this doesn't look too bad.
The one remaining thing which you might notice is that we don't have rounded corners here at the top.
And the reason for that is that our image basically is like an overlay to our background and the background
is the surrounding view.
The image has no rounded corners and therefore it overlaps our rounded corners.
We have on the surrounding view to fix that.
We can wrap the image into a separate view.
And as I mentioned early on of course it's really normal and react native to have a couple of nested
use because to this view we can now attach a style which we can maybe give an image container identifier
which we can now add to our style sheet and now I'll give this image container my width and height here
and on the image and therefore just add a width and height of 100 percent because it's now inside of
the container.
This here refers to the parent.
So to this container.
So a height of 60 percent will then all be applied to the image.
But on that image container we can now add a border.
Top left radius of ten and a border top right radius of 10.
So we round these corners.
And now important add overflow hidden here because this will ensure that any child in there which is
our image of course can't overlap what we set up here.
So now with this setup we add our rounded corners here back to the top.
And now these are already the image items I want here and of course that's all the scroll the blue list
where you also see that these images are lazy loaded automatically which you can continue working with
of course the next goal could be that we can all to view the details screen.